---
title: "My Personal Journey into Learning Kubernetes"
date: 2024-12-16
permalink: /posts/2024/12/k8s/
tags:
  - kubernetes
  - k8s
link: https://substack.com/home/post/p-153203486
---

This blog is all about my personal experience learning Kubernetes as a software engineer. You might be wondering, "Why should a software engineer learn Kubernetes?" Here are my thoughts and reasons:

1. The Rise of No-Ops: With the growing popularity of cloud solutions, there’s a noticeable shift from DevOps to No-Ops. Catching this trend early can put you ahead of the curve.

2. The Transformation to Generalists: The job market is evolving, thanks to advancements in GenAI and LLMs. Specialized roles like "Django Back-End Developer," "React Front-End Developer," or "DevOps Specialist" are increasingly giving way to more generalist roles. Today, I see more "full-function software engineers" whose responsibilities include designing solutions, coding both client and server sides, configuring builds, deploying to production, and delivering the final product. Based on this, I believe it’s becoming crucial for software engineers to develop cloud and Kubernetes skills.

3. A Masterclass in Design and Architecture: Kubernetes' design is elegant and showcases some of the best practices in software architecture and design patterns. When you explore its components, it’s like watching Lego pieces come together to form a self-reliable infrastructure. The way Kubernetes uses separation of concerns and well-defined abstractions is inspiring—it’s no surprise that it has become the new standard for cloud and DevOps.
